so the tumor cell is dependent on large
amounts of glucose and large amounts of
glutamine and those are the two fro
primary fermentable fuels so the
differences between a normal cell and a
cancer cell is primarily the way they
generate energy the tumor cell needs to
ferment the normal cells can respire
um people um because the cancer needs it
needs the two fuels glucose and
glutamine so basically the ketogenic
diet is targeting your glucose
and shifting the whole body off to
ketones tumor cells can't use ketones
because you need a good mitochondria and
if people say cancers use ketones that
would mean they have a normal
mitochondrion they wouldn't be cancer in
the first place so you find a lot of
misinformation and misunderstanding on a
part of a significant number of
scientists by the way that still are
confused by this so it's not just the
lay public they depended on the
scientists who themselves are also
confused many of them not all of them
about these issues so the tumor cell
needs glutamine and glucose some tumors
are more dependent on glucose than
glutamine some are more dependent on
glutamine than glucose many of them need
both glucose and glutamine so it's one
of these kinds of things but if you take
away both glucose and glutamine i don't
know if any tumor cell none of that none
of that we have ever found can survive
without their two key fermentable fuels
so don is one of the drugs that targets
and and takes away the glutamine whereas
the ketogenic diet takes away the
glucose so together these two
uh work synergistically together and um
would be effective in my mind of of
probably managing the vast majority of
all types of cancers
i have to realize that it's you got if
you don't hit both both fuels
simultaneously um and they always say
well the cancer cells are smart they're
not smart and they adapt they don't
adapt they're they're just using the
fuels that are in the environment and if
you don't take the fuels away from the
environment it's going to look like
they're adapting and it's going to look
like they're smart but they're not
so they're very they're they're
dependent on two fuels and if though if
they have access to those fuels they
will survive if the fuels are taken away
they will not survive it's not a
complicated problem it's just that when
you're chasing genes and you think
cancer is a genetic disease you don't
think about any of this stuff
cancer is one disease it's all the same
whether you have a lymphoma a brain
tumor a colon tumor a breast tumor a
bladder tumor it's all the same they
ferment it's such a simple it's it's i
mean it's just like you can you can kill
the whole group of them just by knowing
how to use one tool
lay people understand this better than
the guy actually treating the disease
yeah it's really it's hard to teach
people who know it all or at least think
they know it all
right well if they know it all how come
we have 1600 people a day dying i mean
obviously they don't know that much they
have a lot of fixed ideas
yeah well and and the tragic
consequences is all these poor people
suffering and dying that's the
consequences of the lack of knowledge
nice thing to do is use metabolic
therapy shrink it down into a tiny
little thing and then surgically debulk
it so you never stick it with anything
you just get rid of it so once you
understand the biology of the disease
you'll realize that most of what we do
in the cancer field would never be
should never be done
[Music]
you